{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A Cat, a Parrot, and a Bag of Seed: 
\f1\b0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\b\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A man finds himself on a riverbank with a cat, a parrot and a bag of seed. He needs to transport all three to the other side of the river in his boat. However, the boat has room for only the man himself and one other item (either the cat, parrot or seed). In his absence, the cat could eat the parrot, and the parrot would eat the bag of seed. Show how he can get all the passengers to the other side, without leaving the wrong ones alone together. 
\f1\b0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1) Define the problem 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) \'a0Do this in your own words.\uc0\u8232 The man needs to cross a river with a cat, a parrot and with a bag of seeds with a boat that can only carry him and one more of his three options. The problem is not only that he will need to cross the river several times to accomplish his goal, but he will need to do it wisely not to left the bag of seeds alone with the parrot because the parrot would eat it, and the same applies if he left the parrot with the cat, because the cat would eat the parrot. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) \'a0What insight can you offer into the problem that is not immediately visible from the word problem alone?\uc0\u8232 The man should strategically choose the order of the animals or item that he will cross the river together so that everyone could make it safely, even sometimes having to take back one of his options from the other side of the river to ensure that no one is going to be eaten at the end. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
c) \'a0What is the overall goal?\uc0\u8232 The overall goal is to cross the river 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2) Break the problem apart 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) What are the constraints?\uc0\u8232 Having to cross the river and lose either the bag of seeds, the parrot or the cat. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) What are the sub-goals? 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Crossing the river making sure that both animals will be alive at the end and that you will still have the bag full with seeds. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
3) Identify potential solutions 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) For each of the sub-problems you\'92ve discussed in #2, what is a possible solution? Crossing the river more than five times to make sure you will still be able to keep keep everything okay when you get to the other side of the river. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
4) Evaluate each potential solution 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) \'a0Does each solution meet the goals? Yes, it keeps everything safe. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) \'a0Will each solution work for ALL cases? No, it won\'92t. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
5) Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) \'a0Explain the solution in full.\uc0\u8232 I would first cross with the parrot, leaving the cat with the seeds, then I would go back for the cat, I would take the cat and cross with it to the same side of the river that the parrot is. I can\'92t leave the cat with the parrot in the other side, so I\'92d take the parrot again, leaving the cat alone. Arriving in the first side of the river, I would leave the parrot there again, taking the bag of seeds to take it to the other side. At this point, I would already have the cat and bag of seeds in the side of the river that I want to take everything, having only to go back and forth one more time to take the parrot. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) \'a0Describe some test cases you tried out to make sure it works. (You can include drawings and diagrams as part of your explanation as long as they are clearly communicating the solution). 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I thought about putting the bag of seeds high in a tree so the parrot cannot get it, but the parrot can fly and eat it. To tie the cat wouldn\'92t be great as well because I would lose either the parrot or the bag of seeds sometime. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Socks in the Dark:\uc0\u8232 There are 20 socks in a drawer: 5 pairs of black socks, 3 pairs of brown and 2 pairs of white. You select the socks in the dark and can check them only after a selection has been made. What is the smallest number of socks you need to select to guarantee getting the following?\u8232 a) At least one matching pair\u8232 b) At least one matching pair of each color. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1) Define the problem 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) \'a0Do this in your own words.\uc0\u8232 The problem is that you are in the dark having 5 pair of black socks, 3 pairs of brown and 2 pairs of white socks and need to select at least one matching pair of socks and at least one matching pair of each color. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) \'a0What insight can you offer into the problem that is not immediately visible from the word problem alone?\uc0\u8232 I needed to think about the probability of getting the right or wrong pair of socks. I could only make this probability to be 100% right with a higher number than 2. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
c) \'a0What is the overall goal?\uc0\u8232 To select the right pair of socks in the dark 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2) Break the problem apart 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) What are the constraints?\uc0\u8232 They are the possibilities of not choosing at least one pair or three pairs of socks in the dark. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) What are the sub-goals?\uc0\u8232 It is to discover what is the minimum number of socks that you need to choose to be a hundred percent sure that you are going to get at least a pair of socks of the same color, and at least three pairs of different colors. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
3) Identify potential solutions 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) For each of the sub-problems you\'92ve discussed in #2, what is a possible solution? It might be to choose the correct number of socks that would eliminate the possibility of not having at least one pair of socks of one color, and three pairs of socks, being each one for a different color. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
4) Evaluate each potential solution 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) Does each solution meet the goals?\uc0\u8232 Yes, because you can be completely sure that at the end you will have what you want 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) Will each solution work for ALL cases?\uc0\u8232 No, there is a different solution for each letter to be guarantee that you will get what is asked. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
5) Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) Explain the solution in full.\uc0\u8232 To be sure that you will get at least one pair of socks, you need to take at least 2 pairs of it, which will represent 4 socks. The thing is that if you pick 3 or less, there is the probability of picking three different socks, but picking four, one of it will have to be repeated. To the second question, or letter \'93b", you will need to pick 18 socks to be guarantee that you will have at least three different pairs. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) Describe some test cases you tried out to make sure it works. (You can include drawings and diagrams as part of your explanation as long as they are clearly communicating the solution).\uc0\u8232 I tried to find the right number to be guarantee several times, but I could only do it with 4 and 18. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Predicting Fingers:\uc0\u8232 A little girl counts using the fingers of her left hand as follows: She starts by calling her thumb 1, the first finger 2, middle finder 3, ring finger 4, and little finger 5. Then she reverses direction, calling the ring finger 6, middle finger 7, first finger 8 and thumb 9, after which she calls her first finger 10 and so on. If she continues to count in this manner, on which finger will she stop?\u8232 a) What if the girl counts from 1 to 10?\u8232 b) What if the girl counts from 1 to 100?\u8232 c) What if the girl counts from 1 to 1000? 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1) Define the problem 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) \'a0Do this in your own words.\uc0\u8232 The problem is that when the girl counts, she doesn\'92t repeat the fingers, specially talking about the thumb and the little ones. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) \'a0What insight can you offer into the problem that is not immediately visible from the word problem alone?\uc0\u8232 Every time she counts 40 times, she returns to the same finger and the other fingers that she will start counting will be the same as the one she started 40 times before. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
c) \'a0What is the overall goal?\uc0\u8232 It is to discover the right finger that will match with one specific number. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2) Break the problem apart\uc0\u8232 a) What are the constraints? 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The fact the she do not repeat the first and the last finger to count, making the starting finger for each ten-times count to be different than it was the last time before. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) What are the sub-goals?\uc0\u8232 Learning the order of when one specific finger will be count one specific number. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
3) Identify potential solutions 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) For each of the sub-problems you\'92ve discussed in #2, what is a possible solution? The solution is to count the first ten fingers to discover the first question and count when the counting starts to keep a specific mathematical pattern related to the next starting finger to be count. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
4) Evaluate each potential solution 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) \'a0Does each solution meet the goals? Yes, it does. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) \'a0Will each solution work for ALL cases?\uc0\u8232 Yes, basically you can use one only mathematical pattern to solve all the three questions. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
5) Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a) Explain the solution in full.\uc0\u8232 For the first question, the solution is inside the explanation text. For the second you need to discover that the number 40 will be the mathematical pattern that will always make the next set of fingers to be counted starting on the middle one. Following the pattern, when it gets to the number 100, the number will be count on the ring finger. Following the pattern again, the number 1000 will be count on the first finger. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b) Describe some test cases you tried out to make sure it works. (You can include drawings and diagrams as part of your explanation as long as they are clearly communicating the solution).\uc0\u8232 I tried to start counting all the numbers, and then I realized that I didn\'92t need to do that. 
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}